consistant keep going study thinking 

FIXME: Really People do? change ? 




Pragmatic Programmer 
 
 TODO: Tip 1. Care About Your Craft
 TODO: Tip 2. Think! About Your Work
    This isn't a one-time audit of current practices
    Never run on auto-pilot

structure of a project : individuality and craftmanship

Every day work to refine the skill , to add new tools to your repertoire

A Pragmatic Philosophy 

an attitude, a style, a philosophy of approaching problems and their solutions 

Won't sit idly by, watch their projects fall apart through neglect


Topic 1. It's Your Life : "Why can't you change it?"
 
 TODO: Tip 3. You Have Agency : Be proactive, and take them

Topic 2. The Cat Ate My Source Code

 TODO: Tip 4. Provide Options, Don't Make Lame Excuses

Topic 3. Software Entropy

 TODO: Tip 5. Don't Live with Brokken Windows

Topic 4. Stone Soup and Boiled Frogs

 TODO: Tip 6. Be a Ctalyst for Change
 TODO: Tip 7. Remember the Big Picture : Don't be like fabled frog
 TODO: Tip 8. Make Quality a Requirements Issue

Topic 6. Your Knowledge Portfolio

BUILDING YOUR Portfolio

    Invest regularly
    Diversify
    Manage risk
    Buy low, sell high
    Review and rebalance

 TODO: Tip 9. Invest Regularly in Your Knowledge Portfolio

 GOALS TODO:
    
    Learn at least one new language every year
    Read a technical book each month
    Take classes
    Participate in local user groups and meetups
    Experiment with different environments
    Stay current

 TODO: Tip 10. Critically Analize What You Read and Her

    Ask the "Five Whys"
    Who does this benefit?
    What's the context?
    When or Where would this work?

Topic 7. Communicate!

 TODO: Tip 11. English is Just Another Programming language
 TODO: Tip 12. It's Both What You Say and the Way You Say It
 TODO: Tip 13. Build Documentation In, Don't Bolt It On

 SUMMARY

    Know what you want to Say.

    Know your audience.

    Choose your moment.

    Choose a style.

    Involve your audience.
    
    Be a listener.

    Get back to People.

    Keep code and documentation together.

TODO: Online communication Tips

    Proofread before you hit send

    Check your spelling and look for any accidental auto-corrent mishaps

    Keep the format simple and clear

    Keep quoting to a minimum. No one likes to recieve back their own 100-listener
    email with "I agree" tacked on

    If you're quoting other people's email, be sure to attreibute it, and quote it inline
    (rather than as an attachment). Same when quoting on social media platforms.

    Don't flame or act like a troll unless you want it to come back and haunt you later.
    If you wouldn't say it to someone's face, don't say it online.

    Check your list of recipients before sending. It's become a cliché to criticize the boss
    over departmental email without realizing that the boss is on the cc list.
    Better yet, don't criticize the boss over email.

Topic 8. The Essence of Good  Design

 TODO: Tip 14. Good Design Is Easier to Change Than Bad Design
 TODO: Tip 15. DRY-Don't Repeat Yourself
 TODO: Tip 16. Make It Easy to Requirements
 TODO: Tip 17. Eliminate Effects Between Unrelated Things

Topic 10. Orthogonality
Topic 11. Reversibility

 TODO: Tip 18. There Are No Final Decisions
 TODO: Tip 19. Forgo Following Fads

Topic 12. Tracer Bullets

 TODO: Tip 20. Use Tracer Bullets to Find the Target

The tracer code approach has many advantages :

    Users get to see something working early

    Developers build a structure to work in

    You have an intergration platforms

    You have something to demonstrate

    You have a better feel for progress

Topic 13. Prototypes and Post-it Notes

 TODO: Tip 21. Prototype to Learn
    
    Correctness

    Completeness

    Robustness

    Style

Topic 14. Domain Languages

 TODO: Tip 22. Program Close to the Problem Domain

Topic 15. Estimating

 TODO: Tip 23. Estimate to Avoid Surprises
 TODO: Tip 24. Iterate the Schedule with the code

Topic 16. The Power of Plain Text

 TODO: Tip 25. Keep Knowledge in Plain Text 

Topic 17. Shell Games

Topic 18. Power Editing

 TODO: Tip 27 Achieve Editor Fluency

WHAT DOES"FLUENT"MEAN?

 When editing text, move and make selections by character, word, line, and paragraph.

 When editing code, move by various syntactic units(matching delimiters, funtions, modules, ...)

 Reindent code following changes. 

 Comment and umcomment blocks of code with a single command.

 Undo and redo changes.

 Split the editor window into multiple panels, and navigate between them.

 Navigate to a particular line number.

 Sort selected lines.

 Search for both string and regular expressions, and repeat previous searches.

 Temporarily creat multiple cursors based on a selection or on a pattern match, and edit the text at each in a parallel.

 Display compication errors in the current project.

 Rum the current projent's tests.

TODO: Pragmatic approach : Learn the commnads that make your life easier.

Topic 19. Version control

 TODO: Tip 28. Always Use Version Control

Topic 20. Debugging

 TODO: Tip 29. Fix the Problem, Not the Blame
 TODO: Tip 3o. Don't Panic
 TODO: Tip 31. Failing Test Before Fixing Code
 TODO: Tip 32. Read the Damn Error Message
 TODO: Tip 33. "select"Isn't Broken
 TODO: Tip 34. Don't Assume It-Prove it

Topic 21. Text Manipulation



 